This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Planning Poker

It's a planning tool to vote on work estimative simultaneously.

-- image --

It gives access to a socket.io room where a group of users can decide on how many hours would this subject be estimated, the creator of the room is the one who decides when to begin an estimation or close a room.

-- image --

## Access the Project

Access [this website](https://planning-poker-git-main-carbonaut.vercel.app/) to test the app in real time.

## Run locally

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm install

npm run dev
# or
yarn install

yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## How to test it?

- When entering on home screen, select `create room` and then click on the copy icon and open the url copied on another tab;
- Now you created a room with two users logged, on the tab you used to create the room you can start the estimation and on both tabs vote on some value, to vote you must click on one of the 7 Fibonacci-scaled numbers on the list, in the end of 8 seconds, the session is closed and the result is shown to everyone, those who were late wait for another session to begin.

## Specifications

To guarantee a fast rendering experience and a fast way to write this simple project we are using Next.js on top of React on our frontend stack and for stylings we use SCSS bundles.

Our backend project is a simple `node.js` with `express` that listens to a `socket` instance that create simple room objects on the sockets based on a code generated by the front end, all the clients that enteres on rooms of the same code gets connected and can vote altogether, the firstcomer gets assigned as room's host to give their permission to the commands, as other clients are connected to the socket the counter increases and if 2 or more people are in the room, the host can begin the estimation.

We connect to `socket.io` on the frontend to create the room, assign the host, share the room, vote and check the results.

## Why we did this project?

We are Carbonaut, a P&D studio that cares about learning new languages and trying to be on the spot with all the new frameworks and technologies, and to keep experiencing new stuff, we have the CarboLab, a whole day to work on a project using a new technology that our team is not used to in the common routine.
Since our main projects are with Ionic and Angular on the frontend, we adventured ourselves with next.js and a Node backend using socket.io.
